DVX-210 Initial npl-init content with counter and not minimal docker (#1)
NoumenaDigital/npl-init: README.md

# npl-init

Starter project intended to be a quick start for writing NPL and deploying it in an engine in DEV_MODE.

An easy getting-started can be found on
the [Developing on your own machine](https://dev-docs.noumenadigital.com/tracks/developing-NPL-local/) track.

## Usage

Using docker and the NPL CLI, the project can be run locally.

```shell
docker compose up -d --wait
npl deploy local src/main
```

> fetch a token from the embedded OIDC server

Reviewer: Maybe also few words that you can run the test with npl init and check for error with npl check and see the openapi tih npl openapi?

```shell
export ACCESS_TOKEN=$(curl -s -X POST http://localhost:11000/token -d "grant_type=password" -d "username=alice" -d "password=password123" | jq -r .access_token)
```

and interact with the engine to create a counter

```shell
curl -X POST -H 'accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: Bearer $ACCESS_TOKEN" -d '{ "target": 5, "@parties": { "user": { "entity": { "preferred_username": [ "alice" ] }, "access": {} }}}' http://localhost:12000/npl/counter/Counter/

> ```

Reviewer: Awesome!

# npl-init

Starter project intended to be a quick start for writing NPL and deploying it in an engine in DEV_MODE.

An easy getting-started can be found on

> the [Developing on your own machine](https://dev-docs.noumenadigital.com/tracks/developing-NPL-local/) track.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the [Developing on your own machine](https://documentation.noumenadigital.com/tracks/developing-NPL-local/) track.

```

# npl-init

Starter project intended to be a quick start for writing NPL and deploying it in an engine in DEV_MODE.

## Installation

First, install the [NPL-Dev](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22954-noumena-protocol-language-npl-) plugin in
IntelliJ if it is not already installed.

Two methods are available for cloning and utilizing the project:

1) Via the command shell, first create a directory and then execute the git clone command

```

> git clone git@github.com:NoumenaDigital/npl-init.git

Reviewer 3: This will retain the entire `.git`. 

Alternative: 

```
mkdir npl-init && Jcurl -sL https://api.github.com/repos/NoumenaDigital/npl-init/tarball | tar xz --strip-components=1 -C npl-init
```

Reviewer 3: or at least `rm -rf npl-init/.git`

Reviewer 3: they don't need the git history for anything

```

or

2) Through IntelliJ, if it's your initial use of Github in IntelliJ, navigate to the 'Projects' tab in the sidebar,
   select 'Get from VCS', select 'Git' in the 'Version control' dropdown, and copy this URL into the URL
   field: https://github.com/NoumenaDigital/npl-init.git. You must choose a location on your machine in the '
   Directory' field to clone to the project.

In IntelliJ, go to `File`, `Open...`, navigate to the directory, and simply open it. Once imported, right-click on the
folder `src/main/npl-1.0`, go to `Mark directory as` and select `Sources Root`. Similarly mark `src/main/test` as
`Test Sources Root`.

## Execution

Tests can be run in IntelliJ using the run actions in test files, in file gutters or by using a right-click menu.

> Tests can be automatically run using `mvn test` (requires Maven) on the command line.

Reviewer 3: No

You should now be able to start programming NPL!

## In details

### Setup check

To ensure your development environment is ready, tests provided in the project should pass.

> The setup can be tested by running a test in the `src/test/npl/objects/test_iou.npl` file.

Reviewer 3: This is assuming IntelliJ.

In general, I think we should just keep this file to a few lines, importantly the link(s) to the relevant track(s).

The plugin also indicates syntax errors, allows for more detailed tests results and debug your code.
A visualisation of protocols in a PlantUML diagram, and the state machine is also available.

### Implementation

The code in the `npl-init` repository illustrate the settlement of a debt, also referred to as IOU, against a car.
When the car is transferred, an IOU issued by the first car owner is forgiven.

This example can help you get familiar with the key concepts of NPL like protocols and state machines.
To implement your own use-case, you can create new folders and files in the `src/main/npl-1.0` folder.

The [NOUMENA documentation](https://documentation.noumenadigital.com/language/) provides more details about the
language.

### Run your code

In the `npl-init` project, some functions without parameters are grouped in the `src/main/npl-1.0/processes/demo.npl`
file.
These functions can be run or debugged from the file, by clicking on `Running function in a new sandbox session` from
the file gutter.

Test are located in `src/test/npl/objects/test_iou.npl` and can be run or debugged in a similar manner.

> From the command line, tests can be run with the maven plugin: `mvn clean test`

Reviewer: maven?
